The Public Employment Service Office or PESO is a non-fee 
charging multi-employment service bilty or entity 
established or accredited pursuant to Republic Act No. 8759 otherwise known as the

1. What is PESO

 PESO Act of 1999 To carry out full employment and equality of employment opportunities for all, and purpose,
 to strengthen and expand the existing employment facilitation service machinery of the government particulary 
 at the local levels there shall be established in all capital towns of provinces, key cities, and other 
 strategic areas a Public Employment Service Office, Hereinafter referred to as "PESO", which shall be 
 community-based and maintained largely by Local Government Units (LGUS), Non Government Organizations (NGOs),
 Community Based Organization (CBOs), Universities and Colleges, Technical and Vocational Institutions, 
 as well as those institutionalized by virtue of legislative actions of local government units. 
 The PESOS shall be linked to the regional offices of the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) for 
 coordination and technical supervision, and to the DOLE central office, to constitute the national employment service network.

According to Republic Act No. 8759, Objectives of the PESO are as follows 
(See "Laws Governing PESO Activities 1. of this Manual):
  
2. Objectives of PESO

2.1. General Objective
a) Provide a venue where people could explore simultaneously various employment options 
   and actually seek assistance they prefer; Serve as referral and information center 
   for the various services and programs of DOLE
b) and other government agencies present in the area;
c) Provide clients with adequate information on employment and labor market situation in the area; and 
d) Network with other PESOS within the region on employment for job exchange purposes.

2.2 Specific Objectives 
  a) Provide a venue where people can explore simultaneously various employment options 
     and actually seek assistance they prefer;
  b) Serve as referral and information center for the various services and program 
     of DOLE and other goverment agencies present in the area;
  c) Provides client with adaquate information on employment and labor market situation in the area; and
  d)Network with other PESOs  within the region on employment for job exchange purposes.

3. PESO Clients
a) Jobseekers
b) Employers
c) Students
d) Out of School Youth 
e) Migratory workers
f) Persons with Disabilities (PWDs)
g) Returning Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) 
h) Displaced Workers
i) Planners
J) Researchers 
k) Labor Market Information Users
l) NGOS/Foundations 
m) Other persons/organizations engaged in Employment Promotion Program